Add documentation for authentication (#45)
scalar-labs/scalardl: docs/authentication.md

# A Guide on ScalarDL Authentication

This document explains the ScalarDL authentication mechanism and how to use it properly. 

## Authentication in ScalarDL

Authentication is one of the key roles in ScalarDL to make the protocol work as expected.
ScalarDL uses authentication for the following three places:
* Client authentication (for Ledger and Auditor)
    * Client authentication authenticates clients by Ledger and Auditor using client-generated signatures attached to requests from clients.
* Ledger authentication (for Auditor)
    * Ledger authentication authenticates Ledger by Auditor using Ledger-generated signatures attached to [Asset Proofs](how-to-use-proof.md).

> * Auditor authentication (for Ledger )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Auditor authentication (for Ledger)
```

> * Auditor authentication (for Ledger )

Reviewer: I am not sure if this is a good revision but this makes me easier to understand.
- Client authentication (by Ledger and Auditor)
 - Ledger and Auditor use the client-generate signatures attached to request to authenticate clients
- Auditor authentication (by Ledger)
 - Ledger uses Auditor-generated signatures attached to client requests to authenticate Auditor
- Ledger authentication (by Auditor)
 - Auditor uses Ledger-generated signatures attached to Asset Proof to authenticate Ledger

Author: Agreed. Thank you!

    * Auditor authentication authenticates Auditor by Ledger using  Auditor-generated signatures attached to client requests.

Note that Ledger authentication and Auditor authentication are only used in the Auditor mode. For more details about Auditor, please see the [Getting Started with ScalarDL Auditor](getting-started-auditor.md) and [ScalarDL Implementation](implementation.md).

## Authentication methods

> ScalarDL supports two authentication methods: Digital Signatures and HMAC.

Reviewer: I guess it might be more precise to revise the description above

For example,
Revise 
```
Ledger and Auditor use the client-generated signatures attached to request to authenticate clients
```
to be
```
Ledger and Auditor use the client-generated signatures or message codes attached to request to authenticate clients
```

because we have two possible authentication methods here.

Author: Thank you for the comment. It's a good point.
Here, we use `signature` to mean digital signatures and MAC.
As you sayd, when we say `signature`, it used to be `digital signature`, but lately it's been used for (H)MAC as wel., and the ScalarDL code uses `signature` field to store digital signatures and HMAC, so I think it's more consistent to use `signature` here.

# A Guide on ScalarDL Authentication

This document explains the ScalarDL authentication mechanism and how to use it properly. 

## Authentication in ScalarDL

> Authentication is one of the key roles in ScalarDL to make the protocol work as expected.

Author: In this case, `that` is still for `Authentication`? 
I feel `that` looks like for ScalarDL, which might mislead users.
What do you think?

> Authentication is one of the key roles in ScalarDL to make the protocol work as expected.

Reviewer 2: I could see confusion with that wording. How about the following instead?

```suggestion
Authentication, which is one of the key roles in ScalarDL, makes the protocol work as expected.
```

ScalarDL uses authentication for the following three places:
* Client authentication (for Ledger and Auditor)

>     * Ledger and Auditor authenticates clients using client-generated signatures attached to requests from the clients.

Author: For the `by`, I noticed you fixed in other docs, but is it grammatically incorrect? I think `by` is kind of omitted here.
Or, you suggest this to make it more explicit? I'm not arguing and just would like to learn English more. 😄 

I found a similar discussion here.
https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/omit-the-preposition-by.3055198/

>     * Ledger and Auditor authenticates clients using client-generated signatures attached to requests from the clients.

Reviewer 2: Good question! "Using" is a tricky word because it can cause ambiguity, especially in technical content.

For example, the original sentence that uses `using` could mean either of the following:

* **Meaning 1:** Ledger and Auditor authenticate clients _that use_ client-generated signatures attached to requests from the clients.
  * **Ambiguous point:** How are those clients authenticated?
* **Meaning 2:** Ledger and Auditor authenticate clients _by using_ client-generated signatures attached to requests from the clients.
  * **Alternative reading:** By using client-generated signatures attached to requests from the clients, Ledger and Auditor authenticate those clients.

**Reference:** [using, by using, with - Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with)

Also, note that we use the term `signature` here to specify a byte array used for authentication.

## Authentication methods

ScalarDL supports two authentication methods: Digital Signatures and HMAC.
The methods have advantages and disadvantages, as shown below, but Byzantine fault detection capability won't be sacrificed either way.

### Digital Signatures
* Advantages
  * Asset records and asset proofs have non-repudiation property. Specifically, a digital signature attached to a request is stored with the corresponding asset records produced by the request so that the records have non-repudiation property, i.e., we can ensure that the records are created by the owner of the private key that signed the request. Moreover, digital signatures attached to asset proofs returned to a client as the result of execution ensure that the proofs are created by Ledger and Auditor, respectively. If a client (application) keeps the proofs, the client can verify results with the proofs as necessary.
* Disadvantages
  * Digital Signatures are very slow. They will add non-negligible performance overhead in exchange for the above benefits.

> ### HMAC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HMAC

```

* Advantages
    * HMAC is way faster than digital signatures.
* Disadvantages

>     * Asset records and asset proofs do not have non-repudiation property.

Reviewer 3: When reading this part, I just wondered if client requests have the nonrepudiation property. For example, we can say only this client (among all the **clients**) can send this request since only this client knows the secret.
But we cannot distinguish the client and the server since both have the same secret, right? (Can the server impersonate a client and send arbitrary requests to the server itself?)

Author: Good point. Yes, client requests also have the nonrepudiation property.
In the HMAC case, as you said, servers can send arbitrary (garbage) requests as a fake client.

Should we just say, we have the nonrepudiation property in client requests in the DS case? Is it good enough?
What do you think?

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the clarification. IMHO, it would be nice if the nonrepudiation property of requests would explicitly be mentioned in both DS and HMAC cases.

Author: Thank you for the discussion!
Addressed in [977618f](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardl/pull/45/commits/977618f14062db67dc47b0f78b0b2355de56569d).
(Sorry the changes include fixes for other feedback.)

### Which should I use?

If you do not require non-repudiation property, you should always use HMAC.
Technically, you could mix authentication methods, e.g., use digital signatures for client authentication and use HMAC for Ledger/Auditor authentication, but it is very confusing; thus, ScalarDL prohibits such usage.

Note that we plan to update ScalarDL to use only HMAC for Ledger and Auditor authentication for better performance. Similarly, we plan to unbundle Ledger (Auditor) authentication from how we sign asset proofs. With the above changes, we will be able to return digitally-signed asset proofs while using HMAC authentication between Ledger and Auditor.

> ## Configure

Author: Good point. Sure, I will update the doc make it more user-friendly.

> ## Configure

Author: Thank you! Addressed in [977618f](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardl/pull/45/commits/977618f14062db67dc47b0f78b0b2355de56569d).
(Sorry the changes include fixes for other feedback.)

This section explains what variables you need to configure to use the authentication of ScalarDL properly. For the detail of each variable, please also check the [Javadoc](TODO).

### Digital Signatures

* Client authentication
    * Client-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.client.auditor.enabled` (set true if you use Auditor)

>         * `scalar.dl.client.authentication_method` (set "digital-signature")

Reviewer 4: According to [AuthenticationMethod.java](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar/blob/3.8/common/src/main/java/com/scalar/dl/ledger/config/AuthenticationMethod.java), the value of `scalar.dl.client.authentication_method` must be `digital_signature` not `digital-signature`. Or AuthenticationMethod.java have to be revised.

Several other files in the [scalar-labs/scalar](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar) repo use `digital-signature`, so revising AuthenticationMethod.java maybe easier way.

Author: Good catch! It should use hyphen for consistency so it should be "digital-signature".
I will fix AuthenticationMethod in another PR. Thanks.

        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.id` (or `scalar.dl.client.cert_holder_id`, which is deprecated.)
            * It is used for identifying a client.

>         * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.cert_path` or `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.cert_pem` (or `scalar.dl.client.cert_pem` or `scalar.dl.client.cert_path`, which are deprecated.)

Reviewer 4: To be consistent order with the other items, I suggest the order `scalar.dl.client.entity...cert_pem` then `scalar.dl.client.entity...cert_path`, rather than `scalar.dl.client.entity...cert_path` then `scalar.dl.client.entity...cert_pem`

Author: Good catch! Thanks. Fixed in [421a7b0](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardl/pull/45/commits/421a7b0118977c6786d0212dfdfcc61cdfe5e910).
The others start with `pem` so made it consistent with them.

            * It is used for registering a certificate for Ledger and Auditor to verify a client-generated signature.

>         * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.cert_version` (or `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.cert_version`, which is deprecated.)

Reviewer 4: > `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.cert_version`, which is deprecated.
It seems the same property name with above one. Maybe either one should change?

Author: Good catch! Thanks. Fixed in [421a7b0](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardl/pull/45/commits/421a7b0118977c6786d0212dfdfcc61cdfe5e910).

        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.private_key_pem` or `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.digital_signature.private_key_path` (or `scalar.dl.client.private_key_pem` or `scalar.dl.client.private_key_path`, which are deprecated.)

>             * It is used for signing a request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for signing a request.
```

    * Ledger-side properties

>       * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method` (set "digital-signature")

Author: Is this change correct?
I want users to `set "digital-signature" to "scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method" variable, but should we say `set to "digital-signature" in such a case?

>       * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method` (set "digital-signature")

Reviewer 2: In this case, I assumed the configuration for this property would be `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method=digital-signature`.  If that is correct, then I would say "set to `digital-signature`".

**Reference:** I followed wording from another doc that describes setting properties:

https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardl/blob/e1512237d8a468f2c1f41b33124e76c153b9148b/docs/getting-started-auditor.md?plain=1#L62

    * Auditor-side properties
      * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.method` (set "digital-signature")
* Ledger authentication 
    * Ledger-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.enabled` (set true)

>             * It is required because Ledger authentication uses the signatures of Asset Proofs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Required because Ledger authentication uses the signatures of asset proofs.
```

        * `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.private_key_pem` or `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.private_key_path`  

>             * It is used for signing Asset Proofs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for signing asset proofs.
```

    * Auditor-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.ledger.cert_holder_id`
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.ledger.cert_version`

>             * It is used for verifying the signatures of Asset Proofs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for verifying the signatures of asset proofs.
```

* Auditor authentication
    * Ledger-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.auditor.cert_holder_id`

>           * It is used for verifying an Auditor-generated signature attached to a client request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * Used for verifying an Auditor-generated signature attached to a client request.
```

        * `scalar.dl.ledger.auditor.cert_version`

>           * It is used for verifying an Auditor-generated signature attached to a client request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * Used for verifying an Auditor-generated signature attached to a client request.
```

    * Auditor-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.cert_holder_id`

>           * It is used for calling Ledger services directly using the client library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * Used for calling Ledger services directly by using the client library.
```

        * `scalar.dl.auditor.cert_version`

>           * It is used for calling Ledger services directly using the client library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * Used for calling Ledger services directly by using the client library.
```

        * `scalar.dl.auditor.private_key_pem` or `scalar.dl.auditor.private_key_path`

>           * It is used for signing a client request and a request from Auditor to Ledger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * Used for signing a client request and a request from Auditor to Ledger.
```

### HMAC

* Client authentication
    * Client-side properties

>         * `scalar.dl.client.authentication_method` (set "hmac")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * `scalar.dl.client.authentication_method` (set to `hmac`)
```

        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.id`

>             * It is used for identifying a client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for identifying a client.
```

        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.hmac.secret_key`

>             * It is used for signing a request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for signing a request.
```

        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.hmac.key_version`
    * Ledger-side properties

>       * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method` (set "hmac")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method` (set to `hmac`)
```

    * Auditor-side properties

>       * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.method` (set "hmac")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.method` (set to `hmac`)
```

* Ledger and Auditor authentication
    * Ledger-side properties

>         * `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.enabled` (set true)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.enabled` (set to `true`)
```

>             * It is required because Ledger authentication uses the signatures of Asset Proofs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Required because Ledger authentication uses the signatures of asset proofs.
```

        * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`

>             * It is used for signing and verifying messages/requests between Ledger and Auditor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor.
```

    * Auditor-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`

>             * It is used for signing and verifying messages/requests between Ledger and Auditor. It must be the same key as `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor. Must be the same key as `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`.
```

 ## Prepare before executing requests

 After configuration, you must do the following to prepare for issuing execution requests.

> ### Digital Signatures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Digital signatures

```

> * Register clients' certificates to Ledger (and Auditor).

Reviewer 2: Does `(and Auditor)` in parentheses depend on the user's environment? If so, can we change it to the following?:

```suggestion
* Register clients' certificates to Ledger (and Auditor, if enabled).
```

    * Use the client library or the command-line tool (`register-cert`).

> * Register contracts to Ledger (and Auditor).

Reviewer 2: Similar comment from before.

```suggestion
* Register contracts to Ledger (and Auditor, if enabled).
```

* Register Auditor's certificates to Ledger.

>     * It is needed only when Auditor is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Required only if Auditor is enabled.
```

* Register Ledger's certificates to Auditor.
    * It is needed only when Auditor is enabled.

> ### HMAC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HMAC

```

> * Register clients' secret keys to Ledger (and Auditor).

Reviewer 2: Similar comment from before.

```suggestion
* Register clients' secret keys to Ledger (and Auditor, if enabled).
```

        * `scalar.dl.auditor.cert_holder_id`
          * Used for calling Ledger services directly by using the client library.
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.cert_version`
          * Used for calling Ledger services directly by using the client library.
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.private_key_pem` or `scalar.dl.auditor.private_key_path`
          * Used for signing a client request and a request from Auditor to Ledger.

### HMAC

* Client authentication
    * Client-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.client.authentication_method` (set "hmac")
        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.id`
            * Used for identifying a client.
        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.hmac.secret_key`
            * Used for signing a request.
        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.hmac.key_version`
    * Ledger-side properties
      * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method` (set "hmac")
    * Auditor-side properties
      * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.method` (set "hmac")

* Ledger and Auditor authentication
    * Ledger-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.enabled` (set true)
            * Required because Ledger authentication uses the signatures of asset proofs.

>         * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`

Reviewer 4: When I set only `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key` but `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key` didn't, I got a following exception:
```java
java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Authentication between Ledger and Auditor is not correctly configured.Set scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key or set a private key with scalar.dl.ledger.proof.private_key_path or scalar.dl.ledger.proof.private_key_pem.
        at com.scalar.dl.ledger.config.LedgerConfig.load(LedgerConfig.java:409)
...
```
Then, I set the `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key` to the ledger (and Auditor) configuration, then I can execute a contract successfully.

So I think `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key`(and `scalar.dl.auditor.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key`) is also required if we use HMAC authenticaion. However there is no indication in this document.

Then I suggest adding the information that `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key` is needed to this document.

            * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor.
    * Auditor-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`

>             * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor. Must be the same key as `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`.

Reviewer 4: According to the comment of [ledger/conf/ledger.properties](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar/blob/3.8/ledger/conf/ledger.properties), `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key` is explained as following:
```java
# A cipher key used to encrypt and decrypt the HMAC secret keys of client entities.
...
```
and `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key` is explained as following:
```java
# A secret key of HMAC for the authentication of messages between (Ledger and Auditor) servers. The same key has to be set in the corresponding Auditor as well.
...
```
So, Maybe the description of `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key` is not correct. (I don't have strong confidence. maybe..)?
It may explain for `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key` not for `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`?
(Sorry If I misunderstood.)

>  ## Prepare before executing requests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prepare before executing requests
```

            * Used for signing a request.
            * A secret key should be a random long enough value (e.g., 32-character length hex string).
        * `scalar.dl.client.entity.identity.hmac.key_version`
    * Ledger-side properties
      * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.method` (set to `hmac`)
    * Auditor-side properties
      * `scalar.dl.auditor.authentication.method` (set to `hmac`)

* Ledger and Auditor authentication
    * Ledger-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.proof.enabled` (set to `true`)
            * Required because Ledger authentication uses the signatures of asset proofs.
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key`
            * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor.
            * A secret key should be a random long enough value (e.g., 32-character length hex string).
        * `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`
            * Used for encrypting and decrypting the secret keys of clients.
            * A cipher key should be an unpredictable and long enough value.
    * Auditor-side properties
        * `scalar.dl.auditor.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key`

>             * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor. Must be the same key as `scalar.dl.ledger.authentication.hmac.cipher_key`.

Reviewer 4: If I wrong, please ignore this suggestion.
```suggestion
            * Used for signing and verifying messages and requests between Ledger and Auditor. Must be the same key as `scalar.dl.ledger.servers.authentication.hmac.secret_key`.
```

Author: Oh, I missed that part. Thank you!
Fixed in [535df7d](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardl/pull/45/commits/535df7d99e5e76dbc7e0dc0c8aba751cc1c4028f).
